contact-and-support.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Contact and Support
---

We offer several ways to ask questions, discuss OSCAR, and report issues. Choose the method that works best for you.  

### Slack  

[Slack](https://slack.com) is a non-public chat platform where we discuss OSCAR, answer questions, and provide support. Whether you need help with installation, usage, or development, feel free to ask here.  

[Join our Slack workspace](https://oscar-system.org/slack). You can access it via a web browser or through native apps for phones, tablets, and computers.  

### GitHub Discussion Forum  

For public and permanent discussions, use our [GitHub discussion forum](https://github.com/oscar-system/Oscar.jl/discussions). This is a great place for general questions and in-depth discussions. A free [GitHub account](https://github.com) is required to participate.  

### Reporting Issues  

To report a bug or issue, submit it to our [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/oscar-system/Oscar.jl/issues). A free [GitHub account](https://github.com) is required.

### Email  

If you prefer email over GitHub and Slack, you can reach us at [OSCAR-dev](mailto:oscar-dev@mathematik.uni-kl.de).

Commit message:

Better document mailing list (#439)
* Better document mailing list

* Update contact-and-support.md

contact-and-support.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Contact and Support
---

We offer several ways to ask questions, discuss OSCAR, and report issues. Choose the method that works best for you.  

### Slack  

[Slack](https://slack.com) is a non-public chat platform where we discuss OSCAR, answer questions, and provide support. Whether you need help with installation, usage, or development, feel free to ask here.  

[Join our Slack workspace](https://oscar-system.org/slack). You can access it via a web browser or through native apps for phones, tablets, and computers.  

### GitHub Discussion Forum  

For public and permanent discussions, use our [GitHub discussion forum](https://github.com/oscar-system/Oscar.jl/discussions). This is a great place for general questions and in-depth discussions. A free [GitHub account](https://github.com) is required to participate.  

### Reporting Issues  

To report a bug or issue, submit it to our [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/oscar-system/Oscar.jl/issues). A free [GitHub account](https://github.com) is required.

### Mailing list

For announcements of OSCAR events and the occasional technical discussion, we also have a low-traffic mailing list `oscar-dev`.

To join it, visit <https://mail.mathematik.uni-kl.de/mailman/listinfo/oscar-dev> and follow the instructions there. Afterwards you can send messages to it by writing an email to <oscar-dev@mathematik.uni-kl.de>.
